=head1 NAME

nets - Serial port over Telnet client tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<nets> I<< <host> >> I<< <port> >> [I<< <link> >>|--] [I<< <command> >> ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<nets> creates a pseudo-terminal device and connects it to a Telnet service.
It then either creates a symbolic link to it or passes it as an argument to a
specified command. Alternatively, if neither link or commands are specified,
it prints the device name.

This is particularly useful for connecting tools designed to work with a
terminal device of a regular serial port to a RFC 2217 network serial port
service.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item I<< <host> >>

Hostname or address of a Telnet service.

=item I<< <port> >>

Service name or port number.

=item I<< <link> >>

Create a symbolic link to a PTY after the network serial port device is
connected. Useful in order to get a device file with known name.

=item I<< <command> >> ...

Run the specified command after the network serial port device is
connected. All further arguments are passed to the given command followed by
the pty name. If the C<{}> string is encountered it will be replaced with the
path to the PTY device.

When the command terminates the B<nets> terminates as well.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item B<nets example.com telnet>

Connect a PTY to Telnet service running at I<example.net> and print its name.

=item B<nets example.com telnet /dev/modem>

Connect a PTY to Telnet service running at I<example.net> and link the
F</dev/modem> name to it.

Useful for getting a known device name for tools that expect it.

=item B<nets example.com 23 -- cu -l {}>

Connect a PTY to a Telnet service running on port 23 of I<example.net> and pass
it to C<cu -l> command.

This essentially runs an interactive session connected to given Telnet service
much like a regular telnet client.

=item B<nets example.com 23 /dev/modem minicom>

Connect a PTY to Telnet service running at I<example.net> and link the
F</dev/modem> name to it and run a specified command. The PTY will be
disconnected when the session terminates.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item * Lubomir Rintel <L<lkundrak@v3.sk>>

=back

B<nets> can be redistributed under the terms of GNU General Public License
(any version at your option).

The source code repository can be obtained from
L<https://github.com/lkundrak/nets>. Bug fixes and feature
ehancements licensed under same conditions as nets are welcome
via GIT pull requests.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<netsctl(1)>.
