=head1 NAME

netsctl - Serial port over Telnet control tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<netsctl> I<< <host> >> I<< <port> >> [I<< <option> >> I<< <value> >> ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<netsctl> sets or queries serial port settings of RFC 2217 enabled Telnet
service.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item I<< <host> >>

Hostname or address of a Telnet service.

=item I<< <port> >>

Service name or port number.

=item I<< <option> >> I<< <value> >>|I<?>

Get or set a particular option. A value of I<?> requests and print the current
setting, other arguments set the option to a specified value. When no options
are specified all options are queried and printed.

The options are printed in the I<< <option> >> I<< <value> >> form, allowing
their reuse as arguments to B<netsctl>.

The valid options are:

=over

=item I<baudrate> I<< <rate> >>

Baud Rate

=item I<datasize> I<< <bits> >>

Data Bit Size

=item I<parity> I<NONE>|I<ODD>|I<EVEN>|I<MARK>

Parity

=item I<stopsize> I<< bits >>

Stop Bit size

=item I<flow> I<none>|I<xonxoff>|I<rtscts>

Com Port Flow Control Setting (outbound/both)

=item I<break> I<on>|I<off>

BREAK State

=item I<dtr> I<on>|I<off>

DTR Signal State

=item I<rts> I<on>|I<off>

RTS Signal State

=item I<flow_in> I<none>|I<xonxoff>|I<rtscts>| I<dtr>|I<dcd>|I<dsr>

Com Port Flow Control Setting (inbound)

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item B<netsctl example.com telnet>

Query all settings from a Telnet service running at I<example.net>.

=item B<netsctl example.com telnet baudrate '?' flow '?'>

Query baud rate and flow control settings from a Telnet service running at
I<example.net>.

=item B<netsctl example.com 23 baudrate 9600 datasize 8 parity NONE>

Set baud rate, data size, and parity on Telnet service running on port 23 of
I<example.net>.

=item B<netsctl example.com telnet |xargs netsctl example.com 2323>

Copy all settings from Telnet service running at I<example.net> to Telnet
service running on port 23 of I<example.net>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Some servers reset the options when the client disconnects and this client
always disconnects after setting the configuration. Thus, in effect, the
settings will be lost.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item * Lubomir Rintel <L<lkundrak@v3.sk>>

=back

B<netsctl> can be redistributed under the terms of GNU General Public License
(any version at your option).

The source code repository can be obtained from
L<https://github.com/lkundrak/nets>. Bug fixes and feature
ehancements licensed under same conditions as netsctl are welcome
via GIT pull requests.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nets(1)>.
